Naozumi, I know Yotaro's
your little brother,
but you don't need to put him
at the head of the Risshidan.
He can't be honest with you or his wife.
Not even his students respect him.
No, we need him.
You don't know the real Yotaro.
He's the only man fit to lead the Risshidan.
He's a paragon of the sword.
He's a true martial god.
No one could ever defeat him.
Kyohachi School
Best of three!
Bow!
Kondo Isami of the Mibu Roshigumi
versus Kyohachi Yotaro,
head of the Kyohachi School.
He doesn't always have it
together, but even so...
If you want to learn swordsmanship here,
speak to him.
Start here.
End here.
Begin!
I finally get to see how Kondo-san fights.
Blue Miburo
They've begun.
Seigan.
"Say gone"?
It's a basic stance.
They watch to see what the other does first.
O-Oh, I see.
Don't you think this'll be tough
on the young sensei?
I'm worried. That fellow looks strong.
Not even Yotaro-san's students
have faith in him.
H-He changed stance.
Hajime-kun, what's that one?
Stop bugging me. Shut up and watch.
Was that Kondo-san?
He attacking!
He's fast.
H-He blocked it. Thank goodness.
Good luck trying to parry
Yotaro's flurries of blows.
At first sight, it's virtually impossible.
He got him!
No.
Pops is parrying every blow.
What? That wasn't a clean hit?
Be quiet.
K-Kondo-san has the edge. He's incredible.
So Pops has the edge in strength.
Point to Kyohachi.
What? How?
He hit his forearm. Shallow but clean.
Hey, now. Is that really the young sensei?
He's like a different person.
Has he always been this good?
He must be what they call a "natural."
This guy's something special.
You mean he's a prodigy, like Okita-san?
No, a little more serious.
Serious how?
Round two, begin!
The match is a best of three.
It all hangs on this round.
It's one-sided again.
What's the matter, Kondo-san?
It's over for you if you don't strike back.
Kami-ashi footwork.
He dodged it!
You're wide open!
P-Point. Body strike!
Yes! Kondo-san took that round.
H-He pushed him with his arm.
What kind of swordsmanship
is that? Is it even allowed?
Idiots. There are no rules
in a fight to the death.
Still, Pops is nimbler than I thought.
A friend?
What's this Kondo guy like?
Good question. In short, he seeks...
the "way."
Thank you for giving me round two.
Oh, um...
A courtesy?
I see.
That's our sensei. Always a gentleman.
But I was fighting seriously.
Either way, this visitor is no slouch.
He's the real deal.
Shogoro's the best!
He's never lost a fight!
Did you hear he took down a boar this time?
What is he, a tengu?
A martial god?
Bishamonten himself?
This is Kondo Shusuke-sensei.
He came all this way just to meet you.
He's strong.
What would you say to going
a few rounds with me?
Did you think you could thrash my old bones?
Shieikan
From now on, your name is Kondo Isami.
And the Shieikan is your dojo.
Accept all comers.
This is a gathering place for
those who wish to master the way.
Hone your technique, strengthen
your body, and temper your spirit.
And never forget, Isami:
You are weak.
Everything begins from there.
H-He's laughing?
Round three, begin!
The world is vast.
Many strong fighters still lie sleeping.
D-Daijodan?
What a daring stance.
What's "daijodan"?
No stance lets you strike faster
or land a hit easier.
But it leaves your body wide open.
So it's all about offense then?
The young sensei has taken up a gedan stance!
Another bold choice.
A-And what's a "gedan" stance?
Gedan keeps your arms low, so it's easier
to bide your time, but strikes come out slow.
Put simply, it's a defensive stance.
So Kondo-san will attack,
and Yotaro-san will defend?
Pretty much no one would use
either stance in a real fight.
What next?
You baited a blow to the face
to counter with one of your own?
Magnificent.
Point to Kyohachi. Contest over.
He won!
What a move.
I've never seen a counter like that.
Th-They moved so fast,
I couldn't follow it.
That guy really is strong.
Kondo-san lost.
Huh?
I learned a lot from you today.
Oh, no. Not as much as I learned from you.
There's a big, wide world out there,
full of swordsmen I've yet to meet.
I am weak, and that's enough
to make life worth living.
Please teach me, all of you.
Oh, no. We couldn't.
I've never seen a guy so tough act so humble.
No, I'm weak.
Sensei! I never knew
you were hiding your strength.
No, I really haven't been.
I worried what would become of this dojo
when the old sensei up and vanished.
Same. But it's in good hands.
I'm sorry Nagi's running late.
Maybe she went shopping.
No, that's all right. We'll come again.
Well then, if you'll excuse us...
Thank you for everything.
What mighty blows.
My hands are still trembling.
Kondo Isami. Things would have gone
differently if we'd fought with steel.
Nio-kun!
Nagi-san!
I'm so sorry. I was out.
Oh, please don't run.
I'll come to you.
We were just leaving.
Okay. I just got back.
I'm really glad I got to see you.
Yes, so am I.
So you're with the Miburo, Nio-kun?
Yes, we are.
It's our job to keep Kyoto safe.
We, the Blood Risshidan,
have our target: the Miburo.
What fine, upstanding work.
Excuse me.
Are you all right?
Huh?
Oh, I just wondered
because you look a little pale.
No, I'm fine.
Nothing's the matter.
What? Really?
Really.
Sorry. My mistake.
It's no problem.
Do you, um, mind if I come visit you again?
Well, take care on your way home.
Oh, right.
Nagi-san!
What's wrong? Did you forget something?
Oh, no.
You see, um, my granny's amazing.
She makes amazing dango,
she's good at business,
she sews her own kimono, she's a great cook,
and she makes a good midwife, too,
if you can believe it.
If you ever need help with anything,
don't hesitate to ask.
Bye.
Nio, what's taking you so long?
Ah, sorry.
A samurai just jumped in!
Into the freezing cold river?
Is he nuts?
Here.
E-Excuse me...
Ah, the water feels warmer
than the air when it's this cold out.
Sorry, Nio-kun.
All I can do now is keep this house safe.
I believe in Yotaro-san.
I don't believe it.
The authorities already know
about the scuffle at Nijo Castle.
They know Kyohachi students were behind it.
As head of the dojo,
don't you feel responsible?
So we're all here at last.
The Hound.
The Agitator.
The Lily.
The Firework Maker.
The Fiend.
The Quiet.
The Fool.
And the Samurai.
We strike in three days.
On the night of the new moon,
we, the Blood Risshidan,
will take back the age of the samurai!
What's the right word
to stand for the Miburo?
You're the only one still
thinking about it so seriously.
That's not true.
I'm sure we're all using our heads.
But it sure is hard to settle on something.
New
"New" might be nice.
Oh, it's a new moon tonight.
The stars should be gorgeous.
Like I care.
By the way, it's been three days
since we visited Yotaro-san's dojo.
How do you think Nagi-san's doing?
I hope she's not in trouble.
Nio.
You might want to stop
having that woman's back.
Why?
Lots of reasons.
Like what? Tell me!
Lots of reasons!
It's a woman. A woman came to visit.
Who is she?
Is it Nagi-san?
Beats me. I just heard it was a woman.
What's that? Hijikata's brought a woman home?!
Damn. When'd he get so smooth?
H-How indecent. I won't stand for it.
Is she a maiko? A geisha?
A merchant's daughter?
Wow. She knows her stuff.
A sword grinder!
Yes, about that...
She may be a woman, but she knows her trade.
Who do you think you are,
bringing a woman home, Hijikata?!
Th-That's right. We do men's
work here. Have some decency.
What a letdown! When I hear "woman,"
I expect sex appeal!
Wh-What a piercing glare.
Yes, a childhood friend's look
of unabashed fury.
I... I know what you mean.
Everyone's been through that.
Uh, while we're here,
would you take a look at my sword, too?
Well, better safe than sorry.
Yes. I don't have a sword right now,
but I'd like some advice.
What are you lining up for?
I'll inspect anyone's sword.
Business is business.
There aren't many woman
swordsmiths, are there?
That's amazing.
Oh, no. There's nothing amazing about me.
I'm Nio. It's a pleasure to meet you.
I'm Sakura. The pleasure is mine.
Hey, Nio! No fair!
Get in line and wait your turn!
When it comes to swords, I'm your woman.
Sakura-chan!
I'm astonished. It's as though
you've breathed new life into it.
My field work will go much smoother now.
A hoe? Why?
I see. It does stick in its sheath sometimes.
Give my weapon a look.
I was entrusted with
this Kotetsu when I left Edo.
A Kotetsu?
No, this is no Kotetsu. It's a forgery.
You can appraise swords, too?
What a skill set.
When it comes to swords, I'm your woman.
What's this? A woman swordsmith?
Did you forget to pay your
respects to Serizawa-sensei?
Th-That blade! H-How is it signed?
Nagasone Okisato-nyudo Kotetsu.
It was a gift from the lord of Mito.
A Nabeshima Kotetsu!
Amazing!
I'm called Sakura.
Please let me maintain this sword.
I like you!
Sakura, starting today,
you're the Miburo's dedicated smith.
Thank you, sir.
Although I'll still charge you in full.
Wh-What a businesswoman.
She didn't waste any time
winning over the top dog.
Meet our new comrade!
Way to go, Sakura-chan!
Glad to have you!
Look at them party.
Do some work, why don'cha?
Challenge
Give this to them.
W-W-W-W-We...
We've got an emergency!
What's wrong?
Th-That Naozumi guy just showed up
and said to give you this letter.
Naozumi-san? Here?
That man we met?
Give it here.
What's the fuss?
Wh-What does it say?
"Tonight, at the hour of the boar, we will
collapse the seven bridges on the Kamo River,"
"and set fire to Kyoto.
Signed, the Blood Risshidan."
Huh?
Damn it. It's that dojo.
They made the first move.
Dojo? Nagi-san's place? What do you mean?
That dojo, the Kyohachi School, is their base.
What?
The day you went there...
Hajime spotted their lackeys
among the students and consulted me.
The two of us have spent
the last three days investigating.
We found out Naozumi and his gang
have been visiting the place.
Why didn't you tell me sooner?
Don't blame Hajime.
He was thinking of you, Nio.
Let's go!
Bring your swords!
No lanterns. They'll give us away.
Fire will spread swiftly in
this wind. We must hurry!
Right!
Nio.
This is yours.
Yes, sir!
Sakura, you stay here.
I'm going with you.
Hijikata!
A map?
You take command.
We'll assign men to each bridge.
Don't let anyone across!
Nio! You hold the center!
Can you handle it?
Yes, sir!
Now...
Let's get started.
Get moving! Run!
To Battle
Next time
I'm Serizawa Kamo.
The Blood Risshidan?
Only a bunch of scoundrels
would set out to torch Kyoto.
I'll put them in their place.
Come on, men. Run! Run!
A hero's coming through!
Let's finish this quick and
go on a drinking spree.
Next time: "A Place to Belong."
A
Place
to
Belong